what are the challenges Israel faces in
a ground assault on
Gaza The Enclave is some 41 km long and
an average of 9 km wide highly urbanized
it also has Wide Open Spaces mainly used
for agriculture to help feed the 2.2
million people being held there but for
the most part Israeli soldiers will have
to move and fight through densely built
up cities and towns Israeli officers
have been studying the lessons learned
by the Russian military in trying to
take Ukrainian cities and are trained to
use a combined arms approach this means
infantry moving alongside tanks as
they're being watched and protected
overhead by Air Force jets and armed
drones Hamas has learned from its ground
battles in Gaza in 2014 where small unit
tactics worked well at ambushing
individual groups of Israeli soldiers
hamas's assault on Israeli kotsis and
Military outposts was well planned and
thought out so too are their defenses
within Gaza itself Urban combat is one
of the most intense forms of warfare and
usually favors those on the defense line
of sight is often low with visibility
sometimes down to what you can see
peering around the corner casualties are
high especially for the attacking Force
advanced warning of an approaching enemy
usually gives time for extensive
defenses to be prepared disguised Urban
firing positions are reinforced and
holes are dug in walls between adjoining
buildings allowing free movement of
Fighters up and down a contested streets
without exposing themselves to fire
caches of ammunition are stockpiled at
key intervals and likely approach ways
are mined and booby trapped the
extensive bombing of Gaza by the Israeli
Air Force may actually backfire by
helping Hamas be able to defend Gaza
more a during the second world war the
German air force made the mistake of
heavily bombing Stalingrad prior to the
German Army trying to seize the city on
the ground the bombing has killed many
civilians but also covered the streets
with rubble and effectively turned every
destroyed building into a fortified
position that made it easier for the
Soviets to defend armor could not move
through the streets quickly and many
tanks became Sitting Ducks snipers
harassed attacking troops so virtually
all movements stopped the Israelis have
figured out a way around this and have
made extensive use of military
bulldozers sometimes through housing in
order to carve paths to their
destination the most viable way for
Hamas fighters to move through the
Enclave is through their extensive
tunnel system that they have spent years
building and has only been partially
detected and destroyed bunker Buster
bombs may have collapsed some of the
buildings near the surface but Israeli
Special Forces will have no choice but
to go into those tunnels and fight
Subterranean Warfare has been something
both the Israeli and US militaries have
increasingly focused on as potential
battlefields of the future small
unmanned robots are designed to move
through and map tunnels in front of any
force alerting it to the presence of any
Defenders large unwieldy assault rifles
would have to be ditched in favor of
more compact machine pistols the use of
explosives would have to be carefully
thought out a fine line in destroying a
tunnel up ahead without collapsing the
tunnel you're in and one last thing
Hamas Fighters have nowhere to retreat
to can't run away or even hide for any
length of time forcing them to fight
even more desperately their ranks slly
swelled by young men whose relatives
have been killed in the bombardment
fenced in and walled off everybody is
stuck there no one gets
out